README.md, before:

# Golden Liquid

A test suite for [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/), the safe, customer-facing template language for flexible web apps.

The tests defined in [golden_liquid.json](golden_liquid.json) attempt to cover the syntax and behavior of all **standard** tags and filters. This is a work in progress and will lag behind changes to [Shopify/Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid).

To use this test suite, it's recommended you embed this repository as a git [submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) of your repository.

- [Standard Liquid](#standard-liquid)
- [Test File Schema](#test-file-schema)
- [Test Tags](#tags)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Standard Liquid

For our purposes "standard" Liquid is the one described [here](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/) with [Shopify/Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid) being the reference implementation. Not to be confused with the extended variation of Liquid used for Shopify stores.

All tests pass with Liquid version 5.8.1 and Ruby 3. Some `round` filter test cases fail with Ruby 2.7 due to changes with Ruby's BigDecimal library (see issue [#1590](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/issues/1590)). If you have Ruby installed, you can run the test suite against the reference implementation by cloning this repository and running the following commands from the project root.

```
bundle install
bundle exec ruby golden_liquid.rb
```

## Test file schema

`golden_liquid.json` looks like this:

```json
{
  "description": "Golden Liquid test suite",
  "tests": [
    {
      "name": "identifiers, ascii lowercase",
      "template": "{% assign foo = 'hello' %}{{ foo }} {{ bar }}",
      "data": {
        "bar": "goodbye"
      },
      "tags": [
        "strict"
      ],
      "result": "hello goodbye"
    },
    .
    .
    .
  ]
}
```

Individual test files and `golden_liquid.json` are validated against `golden_liquid.schema.json`. Each object in the `tests` array can include the following fields.

- `name` - A descriptive name that uniquely identifies the test.
- `template` - Liquid source text as a string.
- `data` - A JSON object mapping strings to arbitrary, possibly nested, strings, numbers, arrays, objects and booleans. These are the variables that the associated template should be rendered with.
- `result` - The expected result of rendering the template with the associated context data.
- `templates` - A JSON object mapping strings to strings. You can think of it as a mock file system for testing `{% include %}` and `{% render %}`.
- `invalid` - A Boolean indicating if the test case should raise/throw an exception/error.
- `tags` - An array of strings used to categorize the test case.

## Tags

Tags are used to categorize test cases. This allows consumers of this test suite to easily exclude or target entire categories of tests, or enable/disable features in certain cases.

- `strict` - Indicates that the test case should be parsed and rendered in strict mode, if a strict mode is available.
- `absent` - Indicates that the test cases is asserting the absence of a feature. For example, the absence of a logical `not` operator.
- `utc` - The test case assumes the host timezone is set to UTC

Commit message:

Allow `results` instead of `result`

README.md, after:

# Golden Liquid

A test suite for [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/), the safe, customer-facing template language for flexible web apps.

The tests defined in [golden_liquid.json](golden_liquid.json) attempt to cover the syntax and behavior of all **standard** tags and filters. This is a work in progress and will lag behind changes to [Shopify/Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid).

To use this test suite, it's recommended you embed this repository as a git [submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) of your repository.

- [Standard Liquid](#standard-liquid)
- [Test File Schema](#test-file-schema)
- [Test Tags](#tags)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Standard Liquid

For our purposes "standard" Liquid is the one described [here](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/) with [Shopify/Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid) being the reference implementation. Not to be confused with the extended variation of Liquid used for Shopify stores.

All tests pass with Liquid version 5.8.1 and Ruby 3. Some `round` filter test cases fail with Ruby 2.7 due to changes with Ruby's BigDecimal library (see issue [#1590](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/issues/1590)). If you have Ruby installed, you can run the test suite against the reference implementation by cloning this repository and running the following commands from the project root.

```
bundle install
bundle exec ruby golden_liquid.rb
```

## Test file schema

`golden_liquid.json` looks like this:

```json
{
  "description": "Golden Liquid test suite",
  "tests": [
    {
      "name": "identifiers, ascii lowercase",
      "template": "{% assign foo = 'hello' %}{{ foo }} {{ bar }}",
      "data": {
        "bar": "goodbye"
      },
      "tags": [
        "strict"
      ],
      "result": "hello goodbye"
    },
    .
    .
    .
  ]
}
```

Individual test files and `golden_liquid.json` are validated against `golden_liquid.schema.json`. Each object in the `tests` array can include the following fields.

- `name` - A descriptive name that uniquely identifies the test.
- `template` - Liquid source text as a string.
- `data` - A JSON object mapping strings to arbitrary, possibly nested, strings, numbers, arrays, objects and booleans. These are the variables that the associated template should be rendered with.
- `result` - The expected result of rendering the template with the associated context data.
- `results` - An array of possible expected results from rendering the template with the given context data.
- `templates` - A JSON object mapping strings to strings. You can think of it as a mock file system for testing `{% include %}` and `{% render %}`.
- `invalid` - A Boolean indicating if the test case should raise/throw an exception/error.
- `tags` - An array of strings used to categorize the test case.

## Tags

Tags are used to categorize test cases. This allows consumers of this test suite to easily exclude or target entire categories of tests, or enable/disable features in certain cases.

- `strict` - Indicates that the test case should be parsed and rendered in strict mode, if a strict mode is available.
- `absent` - Indicates that the test cases is asserting the absence of a feature. For example, the absence of a logical `not` operator.
- `utc` - The test case assumes the host timezone is set to UTC
